# Ben Goodger - The Creator of Competitors
Ben Goodger was born in London England but grew up in New Zealand. His contribution to the world of Computer Science is Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox. Which as you can imagine are quite the same yet so different. Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox are two of the most popular and widely browsers in the world. I found Ben very interesting for the fact that he was a founding member on both very common applications.

### Early Career
Ben started his career as a software engineer by studying Computer Systems Engineering at The University of Auckland in which he graduated with a Bachelor of Engineering in 2002. Prior to his graduation Goodger worked as an intern for Netscape Communications Corporation. He started as an intern in the Navigator group who were the owner of Mozilla user interface module in 2000-2001.Ben originally got involved in Netscape Navigator via their open sourcing of the project. 

Netscape Navigator was the original browser of the Netscape line. It was the flagship project from Netscape. In the 1990’s it was the dominant web browser in terms of usage share. Navigator was very well positioned for the consumer Internet revolution and seized its opportunity.

At Netscape he implemented several components of the Netscape 6/Mozilla interface including refinements to the general look and feel. He also worked to improve the performance of the application and functionality. It was at Netscape where Goodger honed in his skills in web development and design. 
Towards the end of his time at Netscape circa 2003, Goodger was focused on research and development of client software for social asset sharing and management. This furthered his fundamental understanding of web browser design and implementation. 

### Mozilla Firefox
Firefox began as an experimental branch of the Mozilla project. Mozilla Suite began to suffer from bloating and the Mozilla browser was suffering from this as its utility was being compromised. In around April 2003 the Mozilla Organization then decided to focus on Firefox. It was originally named Phoenix and then after copyright issues was renamed to Firebird and then late Firefox. The name Phoenix was originally given as the browser was a bird which rose triumphantly from its dead predecessor which in this case was Netscape Navigator which was a victim of the First “Browser War”. 

At the time Goodger joined Mozilla, the team were in the process of switching from their older Legacy Netscape rendering engine to the newer Gecko engine. As part of that switch there was the decision made to design an entire new user interface for the browser. Goodger was then chosen to be Lead Engineer on the Firefox web browser. Goodger made a massive contribution to web development as a whole was his development of a schedule and plan and then his execution of said schedule and plan alongside a community of volunteers and paid workers at the Mozilla Foundation.

Some of the key features in which Ben Goodger developed for the release of Firefox 1.0 was the extension management system which Firefox was renowned for upon its release into an increasingly competitive browser market. Some of those competitors included Opera and Microsoft’s Internet Explorer. 
Goodger developed new features and maintained Mozilla Firefox for 3 years as the Lead Engineer. He conceived many key features and improvements for the release of Firefox 1.5 and Firefox 2.0. While Goodger was working on Firefox, Firefox were gaining market share on Internet Explorer due to the fact Firefox had fewer known security vulnerabilities. Firefox on average were fixing one vulnerability per day compared to one vulnerability every nine days at Internet Explorer.
